jif3D Joint inversion framework


General information

This file contains some general information about the joint inversion
framework jif3D. For installation instructions please refer to the file INSTALL.
Please be aware that this is still a beta version. At the moment, the intended
audience is developers and experienced researchers with a good knowledge
of joint inversion. If you are new to inversion and have not developed any code
so far, it is likely that you will have a hard time getting the code to do what you
want. We are actively working on improving the documentation and making the 
interface more user friendly.

Scope

jif3D is a framework for joint inversion of seismic, gravity and magnetotelluric
data in 3D. It is written in C++ and designed for modularity, so it can be used
as a base for further developments and relatively easily extended to included
new coupling mechanisms and new types of data. At the moment the core of the 
framework is the program jointinv. It performs 3D joint inversion of first arrival
travel time data, scalar and tensor (FTG) gravity measurements and magnetotelluric (MT)
impedances. Please note while the seismic and gravity forward codes are part of this
distribution, the MT forward code, x3d, is closed-source and not part of the framework.
You can obtain x3d by purchasing an academic or commercial license from its author D. Avdeev.
In the future, we will work on including an open-source MT forward solver. Given the
existing facilities for handling MT data, this should be relatively easy.
 
Documentation

You can generate a documentation for the classes and programs using the doxygen program. 
There are two files Doxyfile.manual and Doxyfile.web. 
These are optimized for generating a printed documentation using latex 
and online html documentation, respectively. Currently the documentation is
largely limited to describing the different C++ classes that comprise the framework
and the associated functions. An area for improvement is to create a coherent and
structured description of file formats, requirements etc. in a tutorial style manual.


Examples

The Examples directory contains several scripts to build example models, calculate
synthetic data and invert it. It is a good starting point, but you will need an
understanding of bash scripts and netcdf files to make the most of it.

Support

If you have any questions, comments, suggestions or find a bug in the code, you can
post in the discussion forum https://sourceforge.net/p/jif3d/discussion/ or submit a
ticket https://sourceforge.net/p/jif3d/tickets/ In both cases you need to create a free
sourceforge account to be able to post something. We will try to answer your questions
and fix bugs as quickly as possible.  
